Blog: Rewrite Matomo vs PostHog (#9698)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/blog/posthog-vs-matomo.mdx

import { ComparisonHeader } from 'components/ComparisonTable/header'
import { ComparisonRow } from 'components/ComparisonTable/row'

> PostHog and Matomo are both multi-product analytics platforms that help you understand how your users are using your site and product. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PostHog and Matomo are both platforms that help you understand how people are using your site and product. 
```

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Feature flags" description="Roll out features safely, toggle features for cohorts or individuals" />
	<ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Free tier" description="Free forever option, no credit card required" />
	<ComparisonRow column1="Unlimited" column2="30" feature="Free team members" description="Number of users you can invite to your instance" />
	<ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="EU hosting" description="Access and store your data in the EU" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Open source" description="View code, comment on roadmap, and contribute" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Server-side SDKs" description="Capture events and use features from Python, Node, and more" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Mobile SDKs" description="Capture events and use features from Android, iOS, and more" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="API" description="Capture events, get stats, and make changes via API" />
</ComparisonTable>

> > 💡 **Good to know:** Matomo's add owns can cost hundreds of dollars per year. For example, their "Heatmap & Session Recording" add on starts at 219€ per year.

Reviewer: This on-prem only. I think we should stick to comparing cloud vs cloud.

Author: It was confusing, now using their pricing page as source of truth.

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Zendesk" description="Import and query organizations, tickets, users, and more" />
	<ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Zapier" description="Trigger Zapier automations on events" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2="Add on" feature="Sentry" description="Send and receive error data with Sentry" />
</ComparisonTable>

> 💡 **Good to know:** Although PostHog doesn't have dedicated integrations for CMS or ecommerce platforms, our script snippet makes it easy to use PostHog with basically any of these including [Shopify](/docs/libraries/shopify), [WordPress](/docs/libraries/wordpress), and [Webflow](/docs/libraries/webflow).

### Security and compliance

Matomo positions itself as a Google Analytics alternative that protects your data and customer privacy, but PostHog offers all of its privacy and compliance features (and more).

<ComparisonTable column1="PostHog" column2="Matomo">
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Self-hostable" description="Self-host your instance for full control" />

>   <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="Bot blocking" description="Block scrapers, crawlers, and other unwanted traffic from stats" />

Author: This doc makes it sort of unclear: https://matomo.org/faq/new-to-piwik/faq_63/

More research says they do.

  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="HIPAA-ready" description="Can be compliant with HIPAA" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="GDPR-ready" description="Can be compliant with GDPR" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="Data anonymization" description="Options to anonymize user data" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={false} feature="SOC 2" description="SOC 2 security certification" />
  <ComparisonRow column1={true} column2={true} feature="2FA" description="Enforce login with two-factor authentication" />
  <ComparisonRow column1="Enterprise" column2="Add on" feature="SAML/SSO" description="Use SAML or single sign-on authentication" />
	<ComparisonRow column1="Enterprise" column2={"Add on"} feature="Audit log" description="Get a report of all activities happening in your instance" />
</ComparisonTable>

> 💡 **Good to know:** 
> - Matomo's on-premise offering can be made HIPAA compliant, but not their cloud offering.
> - PostHog is self-hostable under a MIT license [without guarantee](/docs/self-host/open-source/disclaimer) or support. 

## Frequently asked questions

### How much do PostHog and Matomo cost?

> Matomo's Cloud offering starts at $29/month for 50,000 hits. 

Reviewer: I think this includes some heatmap and replay usage, too.

    posthog.init('<ph_project_api_key>', {api_host: '<ph_client_api_host>', person_profiles: 'identified_only'})
</script>
```

Our users range from [individual indie hackers](/customers/headshot-pro) to [YC-backed startups](/customers/mintlify) to [massive enterprises](/customers/researchgate).

> <ArrayCTA />

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

happy to take these out. people don't click on them anyway
